https://www.tutorialspoint.com/php/php_introduction.htm

PHP?
full form - Hypertext Preprocessor
abbreviated as Personal Home Page
created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994. The syntax of PHP is similar to C, C++, and Java.

HTML AND PHP
 It can be easily embedded with HTML files and HTML codes can also be written in a PHP file.
 PHP codes are executed on the server whereas HTML codes are directly rendered on the browser.

Why PHP?
 PHP allows web developers to create dynamic content and interact with databases.
 simplicity, speed, and flexibility.
 


Server?
  A server commonly refers to a computer program that receives and responds to requests made over a network. It receives the request for a web document from the client and sends the requested information to the client computer on the Internet. A device can be both a client and a server at the same time, as an individual system has the ability to provide resources and use them from another system in one go. 

Characteristics?

1. Open source: 
	 free download
2. Simplicity: 
	no libraries, strucutre is simple.It contains lots of pre-defined functions to secure your data.
3.Efficiency(capable of producing desired results with little or no waste (as of time or materials)):
	eliminates unnecessary memory allocation.uses resource allocation mechanisms(Resource allocation is a technique in which the available resources such as central processing unit, random-access memory, storage, and network bandwidth in cloud data centres are divided among users in a way that facilitates resource utilisation, provider profit, and user satisfaction.) and object-oriented programming, in addition to session management features.
4. Security: 
	Many encryption functions are supported by PHP to secure the data.
5.Flexibility:
	because it can be embedded with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, and many other languages. PHP code can be run on any device like Phone, Tabs, Laptops etc.
6.Object-Oriented: 
	The object-oriented programming features are added in PHP 4.0.

Usage of PHP?
PHP can generate dynamic page content
PHP can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server
PHP can collect form data
PHP can send and receive cookies
PHP can add, delete, modify data in your database
PHP can be used to control user-access
PHP can encrypt data
